Document SLSA adoption and current level (#661)
edgelesssys/constellation: docs/docs/reference/slsa.md

# Supply chain levels for software artifacts (SLSA) adoption

> [Supply chain Levels for Software Artifacts, or SLSA (salsa)](https://slsa.dev/) is a framework that provides incremental improvements to a projects build system and engineering processes. SLSA is structured in [four levels](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/levels). This page describes the adoption of SLSA for Constellation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Supply chain Levels for Software Artifacts, or SLSA (salsa)](https://slsa.dev/) is a framework that provides incremental improvements to a project's build system and engineering processes. SLSA is structured in [four levels](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/levels). This page describes the adoption of SLSA for Constellation.
```

> [Supply chain Levels for Software Artifacts, or SLSA (salsa)](https://slsa.dev/) is a framework that provides incremental improvements to a projects build system and engineering processes. SLSA is structured in [four levels](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/levels). This page describes the adoption of SLSA for Constellation.

Reviewer: I think you should mention in this paragraph that this is about improving security.

> [Supply chain Levels for Software Artifacts, or SLSA (salsa)](https://slsa.dev/) is a framework that provides incremental improvements to a projects build system and engineering processes. SLSA focuses on security improvements for source code storage as well as build system definition, execution, and observation. SLSA is structured in [four levels](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/levels). This page describes the adoption of SLSA for Constellation.

Reviewer 2: "projects" => "project's"
"incremental improvements" doesn't read great. I'd prefer "... is a framework for improving and grading a project's build system and engineering processes."

:::info

> SLSA is still in alpha. The presented levels and their requirements might change in future. We will adopt any changes into our engineering processes, as they get defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SLSA is still in alpha. The presented levels and their requirements might change in the future. We will adopt any changes into our engineering processes, as they get defined.
```
nit: AFAIK this is more common in American English

> SLSA is still in alpha. The presented levels and their requirements might change in the future. We will adopt any changes into our engineering processes, as they get defined.

Reviewer 2: In alpha what?

:::

## Level 1 - Adopted

**[Build - Scripted](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/requirements#scripted-build)**

All build steps are automated via [CMake](https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/blob/main/CMakeLists.txt) and [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/tree/main/.github).

**[Provenance - Available](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/requirements#available)**

> Provenance for our CLI is generated using the [slsa-github-generator](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provenance for the CLI is generated using the [slsa-github-generator](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator).
```

## Level 2 - Adopted

**[Source - Version Controlled](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/requirements#version-controlled)**

Constellation is hosted on GitHub using git.

**[Build - Build Service](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/requirements#build-service)**

All builds are carried out by [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/tree/main/.github).

**[Provenance - Authenticated](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/requirements#authenticated)**

> Provenance for our CLI is signed using the [slsa-github-generator](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator). Learn [how to verify the CLI](../workflows/verify-cli.md) using the signed provenance, before using it for the first time.
> 
> **[Provenance - Service Generated](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/requirements#service-generated)**
> 
> Provenance for our CLI is generated using the [slsa-github-generator](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator) in GitHub Actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provenance for the CLI is signed using the [slsa-github-generator](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator). Learn [how to verify the CLI](../workflows/verify-cli.md) using the signed provenance, before using it for the first time.

**[Provenance - Service Generated](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/requirements#service-generated)**

Provenance for the CLI is generated using the [slsa-github-generator](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator) in GitHub Actions.
```

## Level 3 - Adopted

**[Source - Verified History](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/requirements#verified-history)**

The [Edgeless Systems](https://github.com/edgelesssys) GitHub organization [requires two-factor authentication](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/keeping-your-organization-secure/managing-two-factor-authentication-for-your-organization/requiring-two-factor-authentication-in-your-organization) for all members.

**[Source - Retained Indefinitely](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/requirements#retained-indefinitely)**

> Since we use GitHub to host our repository, it's not possible for an external person to delete or modify the history. Before a pull request can be merged, an explicit approval from an [Edgeless Systems](https://github.com/edgelesssys) team member is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we use GitHub to host the repository, it's impossible for an external person to delete or modify the history. Before a pull request can be merged, an explicit approval from an [Edgeless Systems](https://github.com/edgelesssys) team member is required.
```

> Since we use GitHub to host the repository, it's impossible for an external person to delete or modify the history. Before a pull request can be merged, an explicit approval from an [Edgeless Systems](https://github.com/edgelesssys) team member is required.

Reviewer 2: "impossible" is a strong word. I'd prefer "an external person cannot modify or delete".

> The same holds true for changes proposed by team members. Each change to master needs to be proposed via a pull request and requires at least one approval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same holds true for changes proposed by team members. Each change to main needs to be proposed via a pull request and requires at least one approval.
```

> The same holds true for changes proposed by team members. Each change to main needs to be proposed via a pull request and requires at least one approval.

Reviewer 2: `main` looks nicer.

The [Edgeless Systems](https://github.com/edgelesssys) GitHub organization admins control these settings and are able to make changes to the repositorie's history should legal requirements necessitate it. These changes require two-party approval following the obliterate policy.

**[Build - Build as Code](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/requirements#build-as-code)**

All build files for Constellation are stored in [the same repository](https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/tree/main/.github).

**[Build - Ephemeral Environment](https://slsa.dev/spec/v0.1/requirements#ephemeral-environment)**

> All GitHub Action workflows are executed on [GitHub-hosted runners](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-github-hosted-runners/about-github-hosted-runners). These runners are only available for the duration of the workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All GitHub Action workflows are executed on [GitHub-hosted runners](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-github-hosted-runners/about-github-hosted-runners). These runners are only available during workflow.
```
